from Hawaii, from storage in Oakland, from
Homestead where my last duty station in the states
were. And we were able to do that. And then after
that you had one year, you could have one free move
and one government expense within the next year,
within one year period after you retire. And I
retired on on the first of September. Well, our
youngest daughter, we thought we were going to get
a job up in Denver, take a job up in Denver, so she
enrolled in the University of Colorado to be close
at home. So she had to go up there, be there by the
31st of August. So I got my retired papers and the
retired identification and what have you. ahead
of time so when I actually retired I was
approaching Lowry Field in Denver where we were
staying to deliver our daughter up to college. And
so I went over to the BX and the base exchange to get a
check cashed and they said oh we don't, the same day
that I retired some guy said oh we don't cash checks
for retired people here. And I said, well, I'll go
to the officer's club. Well, no, the officer's
club didn't retire, didn't cash checks for
retired people either. And boy, just one day you
can cash a check anywhere in the world, the next day
you couldn't cash a check on base. So... So that
really shakes you up. I mean, that really shakes
you up. Especially after you've lived 30 years as a
volunteer. Yeah, that's right. And so I called up
the base commander up there. He was a friend of
mine.
He graduated, I guess, a couple of years ahead of me
at West Point. And he was a major general up there.
So I called him up. And I said, Chuck, what goes on
here? I can't even get a check cast. Oh, he says, we
have so many bounce checks from retired people,
why we just have to stop this. Bounce checks from
retired people? That's what he said. How can that
be? Well, they go into the transit, well, he said
transit retired people. They're traveling
around the United States, and they stop at an air
base and cash a check, and the doggone thing
bounces. Mm-hmm. For various reasons. You know,
you're retired, your checking account's not
fully moved, and all of a sudden your pay is
involved, getting to you on time. So what did the
commander say? Oh, he said, go back to the
officer's club, and I'll call them up and clear it
for me. Clear it with them so that you can cash the
check. Well, yes, that solves the problem. But
it's really a shock at that time. And then your
other problems that you have in retiring, you're
being in very responsible jobs, and you're a
really capable individual. And this applies to a
lot of people in the military. And then they go out
and looking for a job, and no one in civilian life
can equate the job you did in the military to a job
that they have available in the industry or the
educational field or what have you. I was
interested in getting into a university. And
teaching? Teaching or being an administrative
assistant or comptroller in the administrative
field. Not necessarily in teaching. You can get a
job in teaching. having had a master's degree and
all the experience. They were willing to give me a
job in teaching. Who was this? Well, I went to see
President of the University of Houston,
President of Tate at SMU. I wrote to the the various
college associations
in the southeast. I
went
up to the University of Texas and talked to the
president up there. But they really weren't
interested. Here you are, 55 years old. They said,
we're interested in a guy that's 25 years old who
has a future. I'll just face it. You are 55, and 10
years, you're going to have to retire anyway, all
over again. So we take you two years to train you. We
only get eight years of productivity out of you.
Whereas here's a young man. that we train in for two
years, we have twenty-five years or thirty years
of productivity. That must have really been
frustrating for you. Oh yeah, well. And then you
got into the job corps program and you said, well,
they won't even interview you.
So you started working at banks. I said, well, I'll
take that. being an executive of a bank, why you
should be able to get a job in the bank, being a loan
officer or something of this sort. Well, you know,
the banks won't even talk to you.
The only thing that you would get through the banks
is companies that they had big loans with that were
having problems of paying them. They want you to go
out and collect. Yeah, no, they want you to go out
and get in there and get the things straightened
out so that the outfit won't go bankrupt and
protect their investment. And you don't blame
them.
So you were depressed. Yeah, you're depressed.
What were your feelings when you left Hawaii,
which was your last post? Well, I mean, I was... I
was, I mean I didn't, being the fact that you
weren't going to get promoted by, I was ready to
retire and try something new. And you figured with
the experience you had you should be able to get a
pretty good job.
And you were offered, I guess I was offered
at the time as good jobs as you expect, except you
probably expect more than
people really willing to give you as an unknown.
The National Security Agency has some contracts
for some cryptological equipment that they had a
company that was way behind in production and of
course they knew me so they were promoting me to go
into that company and take over the production
part of it. And I could have gotten that job. Why
didn't you take it? Where was it? It was in
Maryland. in around Baltimore, Maryland
someplace. Well, you went up and talked to the
President, of course the National Security
Agency didn't have a lot of leverage.
And they said, yeah, we'll give you a job, you'll be
the executive assistant of Mr. Brown. And then you
look at Mr. Brown and maybe he's twenty-five years
old. He said, well, can I work for him? I mean, you
have to look at it as being his administrative
assistant. Well, looking back, that's the only
way that you probably could get a job, starting out
as an administrative assistant. And then after
showing your colors over a period of a year or so,
you'd fit into the management side. But when
you're retiring, and when you retire in positions
without help, why you were just in a hurry. You just
weren't particularly interested in starting out
at $18,000,
$20,000 in a low-level job. The pay was all
right. Looking back, you'd probably say, OK, I'll
just give you six months for free. I'll just live
off my retired pay in six months. And then at the end
of six months, we'll be able to decide what job I can
have and what the pay will be
and what the benefits are. So then I worked at this
retirement thing. rather thoroughly. Do you
think your disappointment at these low level
offers and the fact that you had been commander of a
lot of responsibility, is this the reason why you
decided to build your own company? Well I decided I
was going to want to get involved in a small company
and of course we had not a lot of savings. You don't
make a lot of money in the military. And as I would
say that we had bought real estate and when I
retired I think we had three houses that one of them
was paid off and worth about $15,000 and we had one
in Washington that was oh we probably had another
$15,000 equity in it. So you ended up raising maybe
$35,000 or $40,000 but you also had two dollars in
college and that was taking around $15,000 a year
out of your savings.
So I figured that I had about $15,000 to
get into a small company. You should talk to my wife
about our searching for small companies because
we went to Del Rio and we advertised in Wall Street
Journal. And we got a lot of
replies of companies that were interested in
selling out. And we had a, there was a bottling
company, a PepsiCo bottling company in Del Rio
that was supposed to be making a lot of money and
very good. But you go down and look at it and the guy
owner was living in a trailer on the site. You look
at the equipment and it was very obvious it was
maybe thirty, forty, fifty years old and you had
dirty balls all over the place. It just didn't give
you the impression that it was a very lucrative
place to come to take over. Then we went over to some
small company manufacturing horse trailers,
cattle trailer, horse trailer type of thing. And
they were willing to sell out for about forty
thousand dollars and of course you looked them
over and you really weren't very impressed. It was
a little small town about fifteen hundred people
that they were building and they were building
good product but supposedly they were selling
horse traders from here to Florida.
And so we didn't, weren't impressed there. And
then we went up to another balling company in
Temple, Texas and that was a pretty good looking
company.
Orange Crush I think it was. And they had Delaware
Punch I think was another. And that wasn't too
impressive. But are these the typical types of
problems that a general will have when he retires,
do you think? Well, I think that you have two, no,
you probably have two different types of
problems. One of them is the general is not going
to, don't expect to do anything. The general
himself doesn't expect to do anything? Yeah, he
doesn't want to do anything. I mean, just like a
friend of mine who was,
who was, Oh, I guess he was five years my senior. He
retired in Austin. Well, the first thing he did was
go to enroll in the University of Texas to get the VA
benefits. I think he just took any courses, the
easiest courses there. But so he runs his VA
benefits out on that. Well, by this time, he was...
62 or what the minimum age to get Social Security.
So he starts drawing Social Security. So he gets
his retired pay plus Social Security. He draws his
GI Bill. And so I wrote him a letter when I was
getting ready to retire and asked for his
suggestion. He said, well, do nothing and wait
around all day for 4 o'clock for cocktail hour.
And obviously Anthony said, well the first year he
started drawing Social Security, he drew all that
he had ever paid in there. So since he was
sixty-four, why he had been a freeloader on the
Social Security system. To me this is a is stealing
almost. Although I agree he's due it, but that's
not really what Social Security was set up for. So
that's the first problem, people who the general
just looks out and says, well, I'm not going to do
anything. And the other problem is someone like
you who wants to do something but cannot find a job.
They really cannot find a job. Then, of course, you
have certain other selected general officers who
who have been in contact with the big industrial
complexes that get a job with the companies with
whom they've been dealing. Sure, there's a number
of generals and admirals who work for Boeing and
General Dynamics. And Bell and all this type of
thing. And I got in contact with some of those
people.
And some of them are happy and have a very
responsible job, and others were hired just
because they knew who they knew in the Air Force or
who they knew in the military. And they were real
unhappy with their jobs that they were doing,
although- They were basically contact men to try
to influence the current leadership in the
military to buy their goods. That's right.
And you're in a poor position because see
according to the regulations and rules and
regulations it says a regular retired officer
that you can't have a job that requires you to
contact these people. Now they can come out to see
you and
I presume there's some some communication
between them whether or not it's legal or not
legal. But the fact that General Jones is working
for Northrop why then you would not contact him or
if you went out to visit that particular company
why you'd probably go out and have cocktails with
him and things of this sort. I mean it's just a
natural set up. But it's retiring from one career
to the next is I would say quite shocking.
Because you don't know, it's one of these
unknowns. You're at a 55-year-old age. You have a
wife and kids to take care of. You have a retired pay
that's, I'll say, about half of what you were
getting on active duty. And although
financially, I was in a pretty good position. I
should have probably just sat around for six
months and let the world go by and start out then,
but I was in a hurry. Well, let's stop here. All
right. Now you've been in positions of leadership
in the military and in civilian life right now.
Could you, I know that you've talked on this. Like
you told me earlier, you've given speeches on
leadership before. You have Air Force manuals on
it. You have a whole file cabinet on it. Could you
just give me a definition of leadership? Well, I
think it's the ability to get people to work for
you. You read your Air Force manual real well then
because that's what it says in here too. It says,
Leadership is the art of influencing people to
progress with cooperation and enthusiasm toward
the accomplishment of a mission. That sounds like
very good.
Do you think that there's a difference between
leadership in civilian and in military?
Well, I think that your leadership in civilian
industry is
designed more of an objective of making money,
either for the stockholders or what have you, than
in the military. I mean, I think your military
isn't a profit motive at all. I think the motive is
to get the most bang for a buck. This is what your
objective is as far as the military is concerned,
is to keep the cost down, but to get the people
enthused and do a better job. If you do that, then
you're not paying the guy anymore. You're just
getting a better job out of it. In the military, we
have had some rather flamboyant leaders,
dramatic leaders in the last 30 years. George
Patton, people like this, the tough sort of, I
suppose General MacArthur was in a sense like
that. Tough leader out in front of his troops over
the hill, sort of, come on guys, we'll kick you in
the back seat of the pants and let's go. Do you feel
that that type of leader is more typical in the
military or other types of leaders, more of a
manager type leader? Well I would say the
Eisenhower type leader is a more typical type of
military leader. Patton of course, he had
showmanship and I tell you his people followed him
although he got into lots of trouble of slapping
kids in the hospital and this type of thing, but as
far as the people that were in a Patton outfit, they
had nothing but glory for Patton because he knew
how to get the job done.
People just followed him. They knew that he was
going to protect them. What kind of leader was
Curtis LeMay? Well, John LeMay was, I think, the
same type of leader. He demanded perfection, and
he got perfection. The guys who couldn't produce,
well, he just got rid of them. He was brutal that
way. However, only at the same time, he had a
tremendous amount of compassion for the
families, for the feelings of his people. was the
type of leader that you knew he had to produce for.
But at the same time, you knew that he was going to
take care of your family if you got caught
overseas. And that's
a ‑‑ and I think that he really could get the job
done, too, probably a lot faster than Eisenhower
could get it. What kind of leader were you? Well, I
don't know. I
think I was more of the quiet type of leader.
However, it's just like going to the military
academy. If you studied hard the first six weeks of
a semester and you got in a high grade, a high class,
why then you normally made good grades there on. I
think when you went into a base and you got real mean
the first six weeks or two months or three months
and then after that why then you could just relax
and everything just went along real smoothly. As
you know that they knew you meant business. Yeah
and that you were still human and what have you. So
you still had to take care of people Because all
your, whether or not you're in civilian life or in
military, you have to get the job done through
influencing people. Okay. You said before that a
couple of the values that a leader should have is
positive attitude and enthusiasm. What are some
of the other values that a leader should have?
Well, I would say you're going to have to have
ideas, you have to have creativity.
and you have to make decisions and you have to get
results.
And you do all of that through
people. And
this creativity is a talent. I think you can
develop it, but you There are so many people that
don't look at a situation critically. They'll
look at it through rose-colored glasses. I used to
take my bunch of second lieutenants out around the
school buildings and they couldn't see a
cigarette butt on the ground. They just didn't see
it. They just looked beyond it. Whereas
I could see the cigarette butts on the ground so
that you could keep the place clean. And I think
that you have to look at a situation critically in
order to improve the situation. And you try to
develop that capability, but a lot of people just
don't, just can't
Look at the situation critically.
The enthusiasm, I just think that enthusiasm, if
you are exuberant in enthusiasm, it's catching. I
think the other thing you have to do is be able to
tell people, communicate with people as to what
you want done. Because you can have the most
brilliant ideas that you that you can find. But if
you can't get people to communicate with people to
get the job done, you still won't get the job done.
Sure.
In the military, how important is tolerance and
flexibility? Well, in some cases, you just can't
have flexibility and tolerance now. Just like I
mentioned, If an individual is taking an
emergency test and flying an airplane, as far as
I'm concerned, there's no tolerance there. If it
means the difference between him living and dying
or the maintenance of his aircraft, there's no
tolerance. It has to be perfect. But when you get
away from those situations where it really
doesn't make any difference, why, then you can
very easily ask, what do you think? And then he
says, well, I would do it this way. Well, if it's as
good a way as yours, you're a lot better off by
saying, okay, that sounds good. We'll do it that
way. And in that situation why you always let him
advance his ideas and if his idea is equal to yours
or Or you can certainly say, well, that sounds
good, but how about adding this to it? So you maybe
modify his a little bit and then it's his idea, then
he will do it a lot more willingly and say, and it
would be if you say, I want it done this way and I want
it done now, then he'll do it, but he'll probably
resent for it a little. In other words, use that
individual's ideas. Oh, yeah, well. This is a
technique that we use in the technical schools
when we're in the headquarters. We'd have the
bases come in with their plan, and if we could
accept them, we'd accept their plan. And then you
would have no problem with getting the thing
implemented. But if you went down with a
directive, say, I want it done this way, this is
what you'll do. Well, they might do it, but they
still won't get it done as easily. But we always let
them present their plan, and if it was acceptable
even with smaller modifications, well you accept
it. So you're a lot better off in having them
present their plan, approve their plan, and they
go back happy and they came up with a good job. It's
very easy to do. Let's say you were going back to
Texas A&M next week and you were asked to give a
lecture to these 18-year-old 18-year-old
corpsman out there on how to become a leader. What
would you tell them? I know you've given talks on
these things before. Well, I would first have them
examine to be sure that they want to
be a leader. Each individual should be sure that
they are willing to give up what you give up when you
get out in front. You're going to have to make
decisions. Some of them are going to be unpopular.
You're the boss and people won't associate with
you.
And those that do associate with you, The other
people think that they're trying to polish the
apple and what have you. So it's rather a lonely
type of life at the man at the top, but it's not
crowded at the top at all. And I've found that
probably only 10% of the individuals, even the
officers, are willing to be out in front, because
if you're out in front, why is everybody looking at
you? I mean your boss is looking at you and
everybody below is looking at you. So you have to be
sure that you want to do that. And the other thing,
the next thing I think is if your family life is you
have to live